---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-13
published: true
labels:
  - WODs
  - Assignment
---

BrowserHistory1 was really insightful to me since I had basically zero prior knowledge of how coding works. Being able to create, from scratch, a fully functioning website that is operating from a server on your computer is pretty impressive and I'm excited to progress my skills as we move on in the semester. I believe the first WOD took me about 18 minutes to complete on my final try, which sounds like a long time, but it was actually the average amount of time. I think I did it about 3 or 4 times, however, I was not able to make it to the end of the recording each time. I would sometimes forget what code I am supposed to put, so I would stop recording, look for what I am missing, and restart (which actually happens for the next two WODs as well).

BrowserHistory2 got difficult when we had to add pictures and change the fonts. I liked learning how to use the .css file because it made the website look a lot better and it was fun to mess around with the format of the website. I was able to finish super fast (about 5 minutes) on my last try (with about 3 tries), but not without watching the tutorial at least once. I was able to save time by downloading the fonts I needed (which was super easy) so that the fonts would show up in my font family.

BrowserHistory3 also got confusing for me when we had to put the paragraphs into columns, so I needed help from the video. Once I got the code down, the rest came pretty easy! Lots of floating involved in this one, which is something I now understand better. I was also able to finish this WOD in the prescribed time with only maybe 2 tries.

My advice for these WODs would be to try to figure it out on your own first before going to the video. When I got stuck, I would search the web for some information that would help me out, especially for figuring out what code to use and understanding how the code works. This is what I did when I downloaded the fonts I needed, which actually saved me a lot of time compared to if I only watched the video. I hope you found something useful for you (or at least interesting) in my essay. Good luck to the current and future students of ITM 352, you got this!
